[THEME MUSIC]
>>DANIEL DUKE: There
were a lot of stories.
People would wonder how
Jesse could rob a bank
in one state on the same day--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: As they're
getting robbed somewhere else.
>>DUKE: --or in two different
states on the same day, yeah.
And a lot of time,
they would split up.
It was the same old
guerrilla tactics
that they learned in the war.
Ties back in with
what you had mentioned
about his need for celebrity.
He loved it, and
they enjoyed it.
It was almost
taunting with people.
They would rob a
train, and women
would ask for their autograph.
After, they just-- they
didn't rob women and they
didn't rob men who
had calloused hands.
The family story was that
Jesse changed his name
to James Lafayette Courtney,
which was one of his cousins,
and he lived out his life in
Texas as a peaceable farmer.
But he still went
on robbing sprees.
Only when he would come
back, he would always
come back a different route
from that which he left.
And the other part of it, just
Jesse, he's a mystery that--
the book's not closed on Jesse.
Much of it has
finally been solved,
but there's still a lot
of-- a lot to be found.
>>REGINA: It's been said
that Americans always
seem to fall for a
billionaire on horseback.
Something about an
unapologetic grab for power.
We've even venerated
characters that
would normally be relegated
to dark chapters of history.
One such character is
the outlaw Jesse James.
His great, great grandson Daniel
Duke is here with us today
to take a deeper look into
the character of a man who
amassed large amounts
of wealth in the day,
but through robbery.
Welcome, Daniel.
>>DANIEL DUKE: Thanks.
>>REGINA: This is a
little different story
for our audience, but I
thought it was interesting
because we got to
look at-- right now,
I think in these
times, we've got
to look at our own character,
and something about us
loves this kind of raw power.
Something as Americans, we
just love this, and the tales
and the number of songs that
are dedicated to Jesse James--
it's unfathomable.
And then you take a look at what
all happened, and you think,
why?
So, welcome.
>>DUKE: Thank you.
>>REGINA: And let's talk why
you started doing the research
to write these books about
your great-great grandfather
and your mom's role
in all of this.
Because women are going
to factor into this story.
>>DUKE: OK.
Well, my late mother,
she passed in 2015.
Her name was Betty
Dorsett Duke, and she
spearheaded the family
research on Jesse
and ended up changing history--
established history.
History had claimed
that Jesse died in 1882,
and that's the end.
You know, shot by one of
his fellow gang members.
Then that itself rhymes with
a lot of historical tales.
Betrayed by your own comrade.
And I mean, all cultures seem
to have stories similar to that
and it fit perfect.
But my mother--
our late mother--
she grew up hearing
family stories
of Jesse James faking
his death, came to Texas,
and he was her
great grandfather.
And then she'd go
to school and hear
the stories, the
historical version of it
where he was killed in 1882.
So she wanted to prove
once and for all which
one was right, the family
stories or history.
And it just started a long, long
journey of gathering evidence
and photos, writing letters,
and a lot of genealogy,
just to try to uncover
the truth on the story.
>>REGINA: And she
was a strong woman,
she carried a lot
of responsibility.
And I only bring that up because
she's a few generations out,
but this was same for
Jesse James' mom, which
we'll get into in a moment.
She was a strong woman.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: And let's-- we'll talk
about the culture that created
those kind of really strong
women who just defended her
clan and her sons to the day--
well, every day of her life.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
the environment of the times.
I think this is going to be
a really lovely, interesting
history lesson for a lot of
people who don't officially
study history and
don't have degrees
in it regarding the Civil War.
Talking about what was
happening in the South
and what was happening
in the North,
and because Jesse James
was more a-- a supporter
of the Confederacy,
we need to look
at how the South perceived what
was being taken away from them,
understanding the times.
>>DUKE: OK.
Well, at the beginning
of the Civil War,
before it actually
started, there
was fighting of free
state versus slave state.
And at the time, the South
made most of their money--
and it was usually the wealthy
families that had slaves,
but they made most
of their money
from slavery and agriculture.
And they needed slaves to
produce as much agriculture
as they were selling, or
they thought they needed it.
And actually, I would
say in many cases,
they probably needed
their level of--
their comfort level.
They didn't want to
see that drop, so--
And to make a long
story short, I
think the average
person saw it--
and in a lot of cases, I
think the churches helped.
Churches on both sides.
In the North, the churches would
preach to their congregations
that-- freedom.
In the South, it was
liberty and "they're trying
to take our way of life."
And both sides--
I think a lot of churches
helped stir that up.
Telling people in the South just
to come, and people probably,
I would say, looked
at it as their liberty
was getting taken.
And they were
defending a way of life
that we all agree
today was very immoral.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and it's
interesting because the kinds
of wealth that the North had
versus what the South had--
and as you say,
very agriculturally
based in the South.
But you know, whether it was
cotton, tobacco, or whatever,
but these are staples of
society and these were
things that could be traded.
So we're looking at--
and I have to say this.
OK, first of all
slavery, has been
a reality throughout
human history,
where some humans feel they
have the right to use and take
advantage of other humans.
And this has happened
all over the globe,
is still existing to this
day, was happening then.
And we look at it, and we
think, that's horrible.
But then we-- then, when it
comes to little compromises
we have to make,
like I'm going to buy
those shoes from a sweatshop
where a 10-year-old made them.
>>DUKE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And so this--
I bring it up
because there's a lot
of unacknowledged moral
issue involved in all
of this across the board.
>>DUKE: Exactly, exactly.
And I love that
example because you
can look at the price of a
shirt, and it's a good shirt,
it's a brand name,
it's quality made.
And people tend to, oh, it's
on the other side of the world.
So you're distanced from it,
and it's not in your face,
so the guilt factor isn't there.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
But it was in our face.
>>DUKE: It was.
>>REGINA: In the Civil War.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: So Civil War went
on, we saw what happened,
we saw how that all turned out.
However, we're going to get
to Missouri, which is where
Jesse and his family were from.
And Missouri was kind of the
Western outpost for the Civil
War, and where everybody
kind of landed.
And it had both Unionists
and Confederates there.
A lot of fighting in
the state of Missouri.
But let's talk
about what condition
it left those people who were--
some of whom were fighting
in the war, others
whose brothers or fathers
were sympathizers,
and they're all jacked up,
now they're feeling ravaged.
Jesse, I think, was 16 years
old when the war ended.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
Yeah, he was very young.
Today he would be
considered a child soldier.
So he's on the farm working,
and he was plowing the farm.
The way it went, Frank was
off with the Confederacy.
>>REGINA: That's his brother.
>>DUKE: And Frank was--
yes his older brother.
So Frank was out, he had joined
the regular Confederate forces.
And some red legs from-- and
they called them red legs.
This was a pro--
an abolitionist backed--
>>REGINA: Northerners.
>>DUKE: Yeah, free
state backers.
They were in Kansas, and
there had been fighting.
And a lot of people don't
realize the fighting between--
the red legs, or free
state versus slave state
on the Missouri-Kansas
border had
been going for almost 10 years
before the Civil War started.
So there was already
a lot of tension,
and you'd have a group
of guerrilla fighters
from Kansas raid Missouri,
and then Missouri would--
they'd gather up a posse and
ride back and raid the camp.
It was just tit for
tat, back and forth.
>>REGINA: It was kind
of Hatfields and McCoys.
>>DUKE: Yeah, it was.
It was like a feud.
And it was-- then there
was always a couple--
with any story, there's
always some extreme cases
where somebody got carried
away and killed someone,
or any kind of other.
You can name the
atrocity, it happened.
When Jesse got involved, he
was plowing on the farm out
in the field, and a group
of union-backed guerrillas--
Kansas Jayhawkers--
rode onto the farm.
They strapped him to his
plow and severely beat him,
and left him
strapped to the plow.
After they were done beating
him, they wrote on to the house
where they found his
mother, who some say
was pregnant at the time.
And it's-- the accounts vary.
Some accounts claim they
lashed her to a tree,
stripped her, lashed
year to a tree
and severely whipped
her with a horse whip.
And then they hung his
stepfather, Dr. Reuben Samuel,
until--
he didn't die, but
he was severely
brain damaged from that--
from that day forward.
>>REGINA: Now Frank
wasn't present for that.
Now Frank was away, right?
He wasn't on the farm.
>>DUKE: They allegedly rode on
to the farm looking for Frank.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
because Frank was
involved in some activities.
>>DUKE: That's
right, that's right.
>>REGINA: This was-- this was
kind of a rough way to go,
and we're talking now a lot
of mercenaries at this point.
It's like, hey,
we're ticked off,
we lost, we're going
to go get ours.
We didn't win the war, but
we're going to get ours.
>>DUKE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, and then you had
the retaliation from the North,
from the union.
OK, so it gets really
convoluted, so continue here.
>>DUKE: So the war starts, and
Frank, Jesse's older brother,
had joined the regular
Confederate forces,
and Jesse wanted to join.
They wouldn't take him
because he was too young,
so-- and he was furious.
And at that age, he
just wanted revenge.
So he found a group
who would take him,
and that was
Quantrill's Guerrillas.
And these guys were--
>>REGINA: They're rough.
>>DUKE: --were
like special forces
these days, only without--
they made their own rules
pretty much.
>>REGINA: Weren't they
call Quantrill's Raiders?
>>DUKE: Quantrill's Raiders,
some called them guerrillas.
It was different names.
They supposedly had a flag.
It was made for them
later in the war,
but it was a black
flag with the letter Q.
Some said it stood for
Quantrill's; others
said no quarter, because they
gave no quarter to any soldier.
There is a lot of
varying accounts,
but they were said that they
didn't give-- they would
kill any male of fighting age.
So if you look at
how young Jesse was--
they were killing people
Jesse's age, early teens on up.
And so they killed a
lot a lot of people.
And they were actually very
skilled at what they did,
which is where Jesse
and the gang later had--
they learned everything--
they learned about bank
robbing in the Civil War.
>>REGINA: In the Civil War.
>>DUKE: Yeah, and they just--
they used-- utilized those
tactics for their outlaw
career.
>>REGINA: Now, somewhere
in here-- and tell me,
I might be getting
these things confused.
Now, weren't the Federales,
the federal agents,
looking for Frank?
>>DUKE: Yes, they were.
After the Civil war ended--
>>REGINA: And that was
part of what was called
the Bushwhackers of the day.
>>DUKE: That's right.
They were called--
>>REGINA: So they're
the bushwhackers.
>>DUKE: Exactly.
They were Quantrill's
Guerrillas,
some called them Bushwhackers.
There were a lot
of different names.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you didn't
want to mess with them.
>>DUKE: That's
right, that's right.
>>REGINA: So people-- a lot
of people died-- people died.
>>DUKE: People died.
>>REGINA: So they're
looking for him.
And is-- now at one point--
how do you say the
mother's name again?
Zo--
>>DUKE: Zerelda.
>>REGINA: Zerelda.
Zerelda.
Let's talk about his
mom for a moment.
Now, Zerelda, from what I
read in different accounts,
was considered a very
commanding woman--
6-foot tall for the day.
People were much tinier then.
6 feet tall and had a
very masculine will.
>>DUKE: She did.
>>REGINA: She was from Kentucky.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: Now let's talk
about that influence
on Jesse and Frank, because
those women were tough.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
She grew up, and she actually
came from a well-to-do family,
very well educated.
She grew up-- much
of her life was
spent at a Catholic school
for women, or four girls.
And she met her husband, Robert
Sallee James, later on in life.
They met and got married,
but before that, she'd
also spent part of her life
in the Black Horse Tavern
which was owned by her uncle.
And that was, I believe,
where some of the rough edges
came in.
So she'd seen-- I would
imagine she'd seen
a little bit of everything.
Fights, gunfights,
and everything else.
>>REGINA: Well she was
fiercely protective
of her family and her boys.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: And I'll give a quote
toward the end of this of what
she swore to, to the aunt.
She-- these were her boys.
>>DUKE: She was 6-foot tall.
Once she-- as an adult,
she was 6-foot tall.
They said she was so strong
she could knock a man out
with one hit.
And I thought, well, they had
to have known that somehow.
She had to have knocked
a few people out for that
to get around.
And she was very, very open--
well, she wasn't
shy about expressing
her opinion regarding
politics or anything else.
A lot of people claim she
was a hard-- you know,
"that woman is hard to
deal with," and at the--
>>REGINA: Well, they used
the term mannish a lot.
>>DUKE: And at the time,
women didn't do that.
>>REGINA: No.
>>DUKE: And that wasn't-- but
when she's big enough to knock
a man out, I guess they
had to put up with it.
>>REGINA: OK, now this
gets into another part.
Now just straighten me
out on the timeline here.
At one point when they
came looking, didn't she--
wasn't there an
explosion in her house?
And she lost an arm, we
have a picture of that.
She lost an arm, and she could
probably still take someone
on with the other one.
>>DUKE: That's-- yeah, she--
it was later on in Jesse's
career when they were--
Jesse and Frank were
robbing in the James Gang.
The Pinkertons got
involved, and there
was a Pinkerton who was looking
to blow the whole thing wide
open.
>>REGINA: Now, tell us about
who the Pinkertons were.
>>DUKE: OK.
There were a detective agency.
During the Civil
War, Allen Pinkerton,
who was the head of it had-- he
and some of his men had served
as--
it was before the
Secret Service,
and they protected people like
Abraham Lincoln and others--
generals.
So they--
>>REGINA: Kind of
let Abraham down.
>>DUKE: Yeah, they did.
So they're-- they were
skilled at their job,
and their motto was
"we never sleep."
They-- they, like
hound dogs, they'd
get on the trail and
they'd catch their man.
And they never caught
Jesse or Frank.
And it seemed to me they
were getting desperate,
they wanted to catch their men.
And it's claimed-- it
was claimed at the time
that they thought Jesse and
Frank were in the house,
in their mother's home.
And it was just in reality,
Jesse's mother was there.
Her nine-year-old son, which was
Jesse and Frank's half brother,
Archie Peyton Samuel and her--
her husband, Dr. Reuben Samuel.
So in the middle of the
night, the Pinkertons
lit what they called--
they called it Greek fire.
It was said to have been a
torch, it was actually a bomb.
Later on in history,
not-- actually,
I think it was in the '90s it
was proven that it was actually
a bomb they threw in the house.
So they threw a bomb
in, it woke Zerelda up,
and it woke everybody up.
They were all in the living
room by the fireplace,
Zerelda was trying to
move it with a shovel
into the fireplace,
and it exploded.
It took her left arm off,
it killed her son, Archie,
and mangled the right hand I
believe it was of her husband
Dr. Reuben Samuel.
>>REGINA: How did this
stoke Frank and Jesse?
>>DUKE: They wanted blood.
They didn't-- they're said to
have killed their neighbor who
was spying on them
for the Pinkertons.
It was a man who
didn't like them,
he'd always-- he'd
been spying on them,
and after that, that
was-- he met his end.
When that happened,
it's interesting.
We have Jesse's daily journal.
It was-- it's not
so much a diary,
because he didn't talk about
his feelings, he just plotted--
>>REGINA: I wouldn't think.
>>DUKE: --the facts down.
But he--
>>REGINA: In the diaries, what
would be the nature of an entry
by Jesse?
>>DUKE: It would be,
"went to the store,
bought calico for $0.15, flour."
Or like when he
detailed the trip
he took with the
boys, and several--
and he named them by name,
several of the known gang
members.
They went on a robbing spree.
They jumped a train, went to
Shreveport, hopped a riverboat,
and then the whole-- everywhere
they had gone in that trip,
there had been robberies.
He didn't say he
robbed anything, but--
>>REGINA: He didn't
want to leave evidence.
>>DUKE: But there
were robberies.
And an interesting point
about that, before I forget.
While he was writing,
making entries
in the journal on
that robbing spree,
he was in Louisiana and
he stayed the night at--
at the House of a man
named Gervais Fontenot.
And Gervais Fontenot--
I thought, well,
this is an interesting name.
And I'd like-- I researched
everyone associated with them.
So in doing research
for Gervais,
I found that he was
a retired US Marshal,
and I thought why would Jesse--
>>REGINA: Whoa.
Yeah, why would he do that?
>>DUKE: --stay with
a retired US Marshal?
That doesn't make sense.
But it went further.
Gervais Fontenot
was also the nephew
of Jean Lafitte, the
famous pirate Jean Lafitte.
And it sounds-- I thought,
oh my god, this is insane.
>>REGINA: Well, pirates
and in the old West,
bank robbers had
a lot in common.
>>DUKE: It almost--
to me, it helped maybe
feed the idea of a bigger
network than just Jesse.
But--
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DUKE: Yeah, it was
very interesting.
>>REGINA: So you said--
you were talking off camera
and you said, interestingly,
a lot of the robberies
took place in the South,
where he was a Southerner.
I mean, that was
his affiliation.
So why was that?
>>DUKE: Well, I'd been asked
that question a lot by people.
Why, if he fought
for the South, why
was he robbing in the South?
And what a lot of people
don't realize is after the end
of the Civil War, most
of the banks and a lot
of professional-- attorneys,
judges, banks, they couldn't--
former Confederates couldn't
hold those positions
for a while.
It was during Reconstruction.
And a lot of the banks were
run by Northern interests,
which is why--
which would explain why they
were hitting those banks.
Just, they felt-- they
were bitter to begin with,
they'd lost the war, they didn't
get their way, and on top of it
the banks were being operated
by their old enemies.
And what better
place to hit than--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So these are jacked
up youth, too.
I mean, these guys are still
pretty young, in their 20s.
And so he wants to make
a name for himself,
he wants to amass some wealth.
He can't seem to find a
way to do it legitimately.
>>DUKE: Yeah, and the fact
that Quantrill's Guerrillas
were outlawed.
They never were granted
amnesty like the rest
of the Confederate forces.
>>REGINA: Well, and that's
important to know, too.
Even war crimes-- if you were in
the military, those were-- they
were granted amnesty.
But if you went
beyond that, and you
went into the mercenary
side, no amnesty.
>>DUKE: No amnesty.
>>REGINA: You were hunted down.
>>DUKE: No quarter.
>>REGINA: No quarter.
>>DUKE: And so the war
never really ended for him,
which was--
I can see-- they were young.
They weren't getting amnesty.
So you're branded an outlaw,
and I can see where they would--
>>REGINA: Why not just
keep the gig going?
>>DUKE: Exactly.
Live up to your name.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about the gig.
It was mostly robbing
stagecoaches, trains,
and banks.
That was their gig.
And then in the movies and
everything else portrays that.
>>DUKE: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So they were productive, I
mean, in terms of the take.
They knocked over
some pretty well--
well moneyed banks
and such, for example.
And we're going to get
into that in just a moment,
but let's talk about the--
let's talk about some
of the crimes that
were committed
in terms of where-- the
locations and what the booty
was.
Because later in
life, he supposedly
was seen by people that visited
their home and relatives.
Had buckets of gold
and all kinds of stuff.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
Liberty, Missouri was one
of their first robberies.
And that was--
>>REGINA: That one.
>>DUKE: I think it was over
$60,000 they got from that.
That also is where
a tragedy happened.
Joseph Wymore, I
believe was his name.
I may have that wrong--
there are so many names
involved in the story.
But it was a young
man, was in the street
while they were riding
away from the bank
and they'd yelled at him, move.
He didn't move.
So Cole Younger just shot him.
Got him out of-- made him--
ended it, and they got away.
So it was a bank
robbery and a murder.
>>REGINA: And a murder.
Now, in that bank
robbery-- this is
where we get into another
part of the legend.
Because a lot of
the romanticized,
you know, billionaire on
horseback part of our psyche
that likes to romanticize this--
he was given the PR
title of a Robin Hood.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about how that happened
and who created that story.
>>DUKE: Yeah, well there
was a news reporter
named John Newman
Edwards, who was
a former Confederate himself.
And he was bitter, and
I think that he was also
known to be a heavy drinker,
and he embellished a lot.
And on top of that, I guess the
alcohol would just add to the--
fuel to the fire.
But he sided with
Jesse and the gang,
and he looked at
them as knights.
You know, avenging
angels or knights.
And that-- and the
knight part actually
goes back to the
billionaire on horseback.
It reminds me, everybody
seems to love the tragic hero.
And you know, it was the
knight-- like King Arthur's
knights, for example.
Lancelot, he was a great
man, he was a great knight.
Skilled, honorable,
but he had his flaws.
And that's the tragedy
of the whole thing.
And it's almost like
human nature just--
just magnified.
And people--
>>REGINA: And maybe
it's us-- maybe
it's us either avoiding,
or trying to contend with,
or trying to make excuses for,
even, our own shadow side.
>>DUKE: That's true.
>>REGINA: The things
that we'll put up with
and that we'll perpetuate.
>>DUKE: That's exactly right.
What-- they're doing what
most people wished they could
or would do, but couldn't.
Just wouldn't do.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean
just the sheer guts
and stealthfulness it
took for these guys
to get away with
this for that long.
I mean, I don't know who isn't
intrigued with this bank heist.
These shows do great on
Netflix and all that.
Everyone loves a good bank
heist where the guys get away
with it, because you've bonded
with their personalities
and such.
So this story is no
different, but the fact
is, he was created
as a Robin Hood.
So this fellow made
him into a Robin Hood.
>>DUKE: He did.
>>REGINA: But I mean,
that wasn't exactly true.
In fact, one thing that
Jesse really enjoyed
was the publicity.
>>DUKE: He did.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that, because he'd
leave behind his calling card.
Jesse's been here.
>>DUKE: That's true,
he had calling cards.
And when I found out
about that, my mother
used to die laughing about that.
They would rob a
train, and women would
ask for their autograph after.
They just-- they
didn't rob women
and they didn't rob men
who had calloused hands.
So if you were a working
man, they'd leave you alone,
and they left the ladies alone.
>>REGINA: So women would
ask for their autographs
because they'd read about them?
>>DUKE: Yeah, and a lot--
by that time, his-- they
were celebrities in a sense.
And it was almost like, wow,
I got robbed by a celebrity,
and they just-- and they didn't
take the ladies' money, so--
but if the man didn't
have calloused hands,
they'd take their money,
didn't have a problem with it.
They looked at them
as bankers, and yeah.
>>REGINA: They weren't
making an honest living.
>>DUKE: Exactly, exactly.
So they were--
>>REGINA: Like they were
making an honest living.
>>DUKE: Yeah, as if they were.
>>REGINA: The irony.
Well let's talk about
that Liberty Bank robbery.
I wrote this down
because basically,
that bank-- so we'll talk
about the reality what happened
with the Liberty Bank robbery.
So the bank was forced
to call in all loans.
Now, that's a
tremendous hardship.
They also ended up,
after the bank closed--
they were forced to close.
I don't know, after they
called in the loans I guess,
that's where most of
the money came from.
But they were only able to pay
the depositors basically $0.60
on the dollar.
So a lot of hard working, poor
people lost a lot of money.
>>DUKE: They lost
a lot of money.
>>REGINA: This was not
a Robin Hood thing.
>>DUKE: It hurt the
community as a whole.
>>REGINA: It hurt the community.
But nonetheless, here we have
this other-- the legendary kind
of information being
peddled, right?
>>DUKE: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so now
here we go into where
the story changes, the
traditional story about what
happened to him.
First of all, how
many big heists
did they pull off,
and then do you
have any idea of just the
sheer volume of heists?
>>DUKE: Off top of my head,
they pulled off a lot of heists,
and it varied sometimes.
Later in their career, it was
a lot less money in some cases,
but then other
times, they took--
it was an undisclosed
amount of money.
It wasn't listed
as that, usually.
But it's hard to tell
exactly how much was taken.
For one example,
and-- well, I don't
want to get off on a
rabbit hole with that.
But the Ocobock Brothers
Bank in Corydon, Iowa--
I don't remember how much
they took, but that dealt--
it seemed in the background
with a lot more--
there was-- it went a lot
deeper than just a bank robbery.
There was a man
named Henry Clay Dean
who was a Southern supporter.
They called him a copperhead,
and you can read about--
Mark Twain just, he
described him as a filthy man
with a voice like a volcano.
His oratory skills
were legendary,
and he would draw people
from 50 miles around.
Well, when they robbed
the bank, Henry Clay Dean
happened to be there.
He'd drawn everybody to
a different side of town
from the bank, the
opposite end of town.
>>REGINA: So he-- they
were in collusion.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
They're all over
here, the brother--
the James Gang rides
in, just waltzes in,
takes the money, no trouble,
nobody to chase them.
Jesse even rode by with
the gang and said, hey,
the bank got robbed.
And people shushed them because
they wanted to hear the speech.
And they didn't realize it was
actually true until after Jesse
and them were long gone.
>>REGINA: We told you.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
He walked by, talk about bold.
>>REGINA: No, that's bold.
But a lot of what
he did was bold.
>>DUKE: That to me, it ties back
in with what you had mentioned
about his need for celebrity.
He loved it, and
they enjoyed it.
So it was-- it was almost
taunting with people.
Catch me if you can.
>>REGINA: Well, how many people
were in the gang, by the way?
>>DUKE: It varies.
There were at times--
and their gang
would also split up.
Like his cousin
Wood Hite, who we
believe is the man in the
grave portrayed as Jesse--
he would lead robberies.
And there were a
lot of stories--
people would wonder how Jesse
could rob a bank in one state
on the same day--
>>REGINA: As their gang
robs somewhere else.
>>DUKE: Or in two different
states on the same day, yeah.
And a lot of time,
they would split up.
It was the same old
guerrilla tactics
they learned in the war.
You hit multiple
targets, split up, and--
and it confuses
those chasing you.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now we get to the
Minnesota bank robbery
where the story starts becoming
interesting, even more so,
because we're getting into--
there are different claims
about when his identity changed.
Let's talk about
fake identity now.
>>DUKE: OK.
In 1871, he came to Texas.
It was shortly-- it was right
after the Ocobock Brothers Bank
robbery, and that was
up in Corydon, Iowa.
He went toward--
he rode West to--
and the gang usually
would split up
after a robbery,
which also helped
confuse people, their pursuers.
But he, we know,
went to Nebraska
and then he rode South
straight to Texas.
It took a while.
He got into Texas, met
Thomas Hudson Barron,
his future father-in-law
in-- outside of Fort Worth,
and then they both-- they
split up at different places,
and they'd come back together.
And they met at the Barron
ranch near-- south of Waco.
And that's when he--
his name-- before
he got there, he
had taken the name of one of
his cousins, James Lafayette
Courtney, and that cousin
was very hard to find.
You can find reference
of him here and there,
but he just kind of disappears
off the pages of history.
>>REGINA: So by the
time they go back up,
and they're robbing
this bank in Minnesota--
I have it here as 1876.
After that, they
went to Tennessee.
Was he going by the name of
Courtney then, at that time?
>>DUKE: He was, he was.
And I don't--
>>REGINA: So was he not leaving
his calling card of Jesse James
anymore?
>>DUKE: No.
And when they robbed
Minnesota, he wasn't there.
We don't believe he was there.
The history states he
was there, and that's
the end of the James Gang.
And it was, in a big part--
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about that too.
>>DUKE: OK.
Yeah, we believe Wood
Hite, his first cousin who
bore a strong
resemblance to him,
was leading the
robbery in Minnesota,
and that's where the younger
brothers met their end.
That was the end
of their career.
And Wood Hite got away,
but it wasn't Jesse.
It was Wood and Frank.
And they got away.
And that's in
Northfield, Minnesota.
And right after the
robbery, where does Frank--
where does Frank, whose knees--
his knees had-- I think
he had a bullet lodged
in one of his knees.
He'd been shot up.
Where does he go after that?
Instead of a doctor
in that region,
he rode all the way to
Texas and was met in Texas.
And there's even old news
articles about Frank,
right after the robbery, was
found in Texas at a doctor
in Waco who removed the bullet.
And the doctor would
never come forward.
They wanted to find the doctor.
He never would come
forward, understandably so.
>>REGINA: This is just
something filtering in my head.
Does this have anything
to do with what was called
the Northfield Minnesota raid?
>>DUKE: Yeah.
That was right after that.
Right during that--
well after the raid,
that's when Frank rode to Waco.
Not while--
>>REGINA: So that raid was
one that supposedly involved
Jesse James?
>>DUKE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so that's that.
>>REGINA: OK, now this was
serious, because now they're
being hunted.
Seriously hunted after this.
>>DUKE: They were.
>>REGINA: They'd been
pushing it for years.
OK, so let's talk about
what happened after that.
>>DUKE: Well, and the
backstory on the Northfield,
Minnesota robbery,
one of the generals,
one of the most hated
northern generals--
Silver Spoons Butler I think
is what they called him.
He had gone through Louisiana.
He had even, according
to some reports,
burned a barn with slaves in it.
I mean, things like that.
He just went through
Louisiana, rape, raid.
>>REGINA: Cruel.
>>DUKE: Just a--
>>DUKE: --campaign of terror.
And there was bad
done on both sides.
But Butler knew the
owners of the bank,
and I think he may have been
on the board of the Northfield
Minnesota Bank.
And he was tied in with a
more powerful family who
had ties to the Rockefellers.
It was real
interesting trying to--
researching the back, the people
who dealt-- who owned the bank.
And I wondered how much
that had to do with them.
Why would they choose
a target so far out
of their normal range?
>>REGINA: Yeah, why?
That's what I was wondering.
>>DUKE: And I had a feeling
it had to do-- something
to do with Butler.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DUKE: And maybe a deeper
interest, I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: Was that a big take?
A lot of booty out of that one?
>>DUKE: It should
have been, but it
wasn't, because they
were ready for him.
>>REGINA: They were
ready for him, yeah.
>>DUKE: Somehow
they'd got tipped off.
>>REGINA: Right.
Now let's talk about the
official story of what
happened to Jesse James.
Let's talk about the
family's story about what
happened to him, and get
further into Wood Hite.
>>DUKE: OK.
Well the official story--
just the historical
story is Jesse James--
most of it, where he was born
and during the Civil War,
is the same as our story.
After the Civil War, he joined--
they formed a gang,
their first robbery
was Liberty, Missouri
in the career.
Where it differs
is in 1882, history
states that Bob
and Charlie Ford,
who were part of
the new James Gang
after the disaster at
Northfield Minnesota--
they got together and shot
Jesse in the back of the head
at his home--
his alleged home in
St. Joseph, Missouri.
They shot him in the
back of the head,
they thought they'd
be heroes and they
were going to get a big reward.
And that-- they ended up being
demonized and just cowards.
Then there were songs
written about them.
"The Dirty Little Coward
Who Shot Mr. Howard."
And Howard was allegedly
Jesse's alias at the time
while he was living in
St. Joseph, Missouri.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>DUKE: So that--
that's basically
the end of the historical
story of Jesse.
Now the family's story was
that he changed his name,
came to Texas.
>>REGINA: Now he's Howard,
not Courtney anymore.
>>DUKE: Well, during--
that Howard name
was actually his cousin,
Wood Hite, his alias.
And Wood Hite was killed, and
his body passed off as Jesse.
That was what our research
ended up uncovering,
but the family story was
that Jesse changed his name
to James Lafayette Courtney,
which was one of his cousins,
and he lived out his life in
Texas as a peaceable farmer.
But he still went
on robbing sprees.
Only when he would come
back, he would always
come back a different route
from that which he left.
And he was just another--
he's a peaceable farmer.
But people in his area--
>>REGINA: Part time robber.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
Well, and the
interesting thing--
there are so many
side stories on this.
Like, after the Civil War, a
lot of Quantrill's Guerrillas,
they weren't granted amnesty.
Many of them had
changed their names
and they all lived-- not
all of them, but many
of them lived in the
Blevins, Texas area.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
Because that's where
the family ended up.
>>DUKE: Yeah, and some
of those guys themselves
would go on robbing
trips with Jesse.
Not every time,
but occasionally,
if they needed extra money.
>>REGINA: If they
need some cash.
OK, so where-- so Jessie was
there in Blevins supposedly
when--
when the others were
killed up North.
>>DUKE: Yeah, he was in Blevins.
In his diary-- according
to his journal,
he was in Blevins
during that robbery.
I thought-- which really
threw us off at first,
and we started--
that was before we'd realized
Wood Hite was actually
the one at the
robbery and not Jesse.
And they bore a
strong resemblance,
they just weren't--
it was Wood Hite and not Jesse.
And Wood was Jesse's
first cousin.
>>REGINA: OK, so the
official story is he's dead,
but he's not, and you
have some pictures of--
>>DUKE: Oh yeah, we've got--
>>REGINA: --the coffin.
>>DUKE: And that was the thing.
When mom stumbled
across this, we
were looking at family photos.
And she didn't just say, oh this
is Jesse, I'll write a book.
We went to-- she went to three
highly qualified experts one
was the Texas Parks--
Texas Department
of Public Safety,
who are like the state police.
The other was the
Austin Police Department
photographic forensics
lab, and the third
was called at the
time Visionics.
They were facial leaders--
world leaders in facial
recognition technology.
And all three groups--
not paid at all, they did
it on their own time--
agreed those were
the same photos.
The historical photos of
Jesse and our family photos.
So we went further,
and even Jesse's mom--
the DPS highlighted her dress,
unlike in historical photos
and family photos.
She was wearing the same
dress, had the same missing
arm, same facial features--
>>REGINA: You would
choose the photos up here.
>>DUKE: --everything.
Yeah.
So we had that, and
mom thought god,
they're going to
be so happy when
they know Jesse wasn't killed
like everybody thought he was.
And that was the last
thing a group in Missouri
wanted to hear.
They didn't want to
hear that at all.
They thought it was changing--
I have a feeling, and
this is just my opinion.
I thought they had $7 million a
year coming into their little--
their museum every
year from tourism,
and I think that may
have played a role.
>>REGINA: Oh, and it's
like any museum you go to.
They don't want the
history changed.
They're making the money
off of their own history.
That's understandable, yeah.
>>DUKE: But-- and
then after that, she
didn't let that stop her.
She wrote her
first book, she had
an article in "Texas Monthly,"
then she wrote a second book.
And after that
book came out, she
ended up getting death
threats from people
who were connected to--
or they knew people at
the museum in Missouri.
And I'm not going to
mention their names,
but the FBI fortunately stepped
in and put an end to that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Let me-- there's--
oh gosh, I hope I--
>>DUKE: Which goes
back into the tough--
I didn't mean to--
>>REGINA: No, no.
You go ahead.
>>DUKE: Like strong women, mom--
and the interesting thing to
me, Zerelda had her left arm--
you know, it was blown off.
Mom's left arm was--
she'd crushed her
elbow and her arm was--
she always carried-- it was
just interesting, almost
like history rhyming in a way.
>>REGINA: Yeah, almost
like-- yeah, I hear ya.
>>DUKE: And she was a
very strong character,
much like Zerelda.
Not as strong as the Zerelda,
and definitely not as tall,
but she was a very strong lady.
>>REGINA: She was
a strong character
and she brought this forward.
I wanted to say,
right here I thought
I'd put down-- which is
interesting, because it talks
about the need for
publicity, but also
this desire for grandeur.
This is a quote you have there.
"We're not thieves.
We're bold robbers.
I'm proud of the name.
Alexander the Great
was a bold robber,
as was Napoleon
and Julius Caesar.
And he's proud to
be among them."
That's how he saw himself.
>>DUKE: That's true.
There's a little narcissism
in there, I wold say.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a little
bit of narcissism in there.
So here we have your mom.
So now this is happening.
These guys are buried
away in Blevins.
According to your family,
Jesse lived to be what age?
>>DUKE: 97 years old.
>>REGINA: 97.
>>DUKE: He died in 1943.
>>REGINA: 1943.
Now, he also is said to
have had eight children.
>>DUKE: Yeah, seven children.
>>REGINA: Seven?
>>DUKE: Well, that we know of.
There's another that may be his.
That's a mystery.
It's still a mystery.
>>REGINA: So what he did do
is he amassed a massive amount
of wealth to buy land.
>>DUKE: That's right.
>>REGINA: And so what
I do understand is,
he may not have been a
Robin Hood, it appears.
But he did share with his kids.
>>DUKE: He did.
>>REGINA: And so when they
reached marriageable age,
they would each inherit their
own land and their own home.
>>DUKE: That's right.
>>REGINA: And that's
how they continued.
Now where in there is your line?
>>DUKE: His daughter
Ida married my grand--
she was my great grandmother.
She married-- well,
she married Dorsett--
a Mr. Dorsett anyway.
I can't remember his name
right off the top of my head,
and that's going to drive
me crazy all day, sorry.
But his daughter Ida
married Mr. Dorsett
and they had my grandfather,
who had my mother.
So it was my
grandfather's grandfather.
>>REGINA: And you're
still in Texas.
So your family stayed in Texas.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
About probably 45 to 50
miles from where Jesse lived.
>>REGINA: So they say--
I mentioned this earlier--
that witnesses in the day said
he had just buckets of gold
while sitting around.
Anyone could see.
And I think he had one
of his sons counting
the cash that he also had.
Wanted to count it
on a regular basis,
probably to reinforce his
own ego at this point,
because clearly he had enough
money to do whatever he wanted.
>>DUKE: In a way,
and I don't know
why he had Byron doing that.
One of the sons,
Byron, he-- there
was a steamer
trunk full of cash,
and Byron would have to
count it on a regular basis.
Like you said, that
always amazed me.
>>REGINA: But I
think about it in--
as he was growing
older, maybe it
was just to reinforce his
own legacy and his mind.
>>DUKE: It could have been.
It could have been.
And maybe, I don't know if
he was trying to teach Byron.
I don't know why-- why Byron?
Why didn't he make the
others do the same thing?
It was always Byron.
So Byron had to count the cash.
Byron ended up stealing-- or
there's a lot of family stories
that turn into arguments
with some of the older family
members.
But they-- Byron had
wanted some money,
and his dad wouldn't
give it to him,
so he burned his barn down.
And it was just things like
that, like a spoiled brat.
And he threw a tantrum
and burned his barn,
which is a little extreme.
But I guess--
apparently extremism
ran in that line of those
several generations.
>>REGINA: Is there--
are there some lines
of the family that
kind of still have
wealth, that were able to
parlay it and accumulate more?
>>DUKE: Yeah, there were.
>>REGINA: Without robbing banks?
I'm assuming there are no
more bank robbers in the lot.
>>DUKE: No, no.
No more bank robbers.
One branch of the family
had a lot of money,
but they also had--
Jesse had gone around buying
land, as you'd mentioned.
And a lot of that land that
he'd bought up in north Texas
not far from Lubbock ended up
having oil under it later on.
So the kids he bought--
he gave that to--
>>REGINA: Became oil barons.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
They had--
>>REGINA: Robber
barons to oil barons.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
But they had sold
a lot of that land,
but they're still
getting royalties.
And that-- things
get fuzzy on that.
I don't know if they
found some of the treasure
and just didn't report it, or--
>>REGINA: That's what I
wanted to ask you about next.
Did he bury--
>>DUKE: He buried a lot.
>>REGINA: --of the treasure?
>>REGINA: They saw
the buckets, but there
was stuff under the ground.
>>DUKE: Yeah.
Yeah, there were-- yeah, the
13 buckets with gold and silver
in them.
He'd buried-- those
were above ground,
I think they were
covered with hog fat.
Just lard that they
used for cooking.
And that went to his--
his widow, which
was his third wife.
He left that in the will.
She got it.
And half of his children wrote
the state and any politician
they could, trying to get
those lard buckets back.
And I thought, how
silly does that sound?
He gave her 13 buckets of
lard, and we want it back.
And it seems a little trite, but
the reason-- it had gold in it.
>>REGINA: It had
other stuff, yeah.
Hard to lift, heavy lard.
>>DUKE: Yeah, he had
left a lot of land.
And then some of those
same families, that branch
of the family--
and of course, it
was also the times.
They didn't want
to admit, they were
ashamed of having a
known outlaw as their dad
or their grandfather.
And they just wouldn't--
you didn't talk about that,
whereas today, it sounds
interesting and cool.
>>REGINA: Historically,
interesting.
>>DUKE: They didn't want
anything to do with it,
but they didn't have a problem
taking this money either.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, I'm sure.
OK, so in the book it talks
about Templar treasures
and uses the word freemasonry.
What is the actual
link, because it seemed
like it's kind of nebulous.
>>DUKE: Yeah, well, Jesse--
passed down along
with the family photos
there was a treasure map,
and it wasn't your typical--
you think treasure map, and
it's like a dotted line leading
to an X 40 paces from an
oak tree or something.
This one was
completely different.
He wrote in code, which
was easy to break.
He would substitute letters--
numbers for letters
and reverse or forward.
He would switch it up.
But it was like so much in gold
buried here, so much in silver,
and he even buried
greenbacks-- what they called--
>>REGINA: Greenbacks, yeah.
>>DUKE: --paper
money at the time.
But it was a geometric
design, and there
was no topographical
markers even mentioned.
So we had no clue
as to where it was.
Nobody had found it.
And I got to-- so I
started with that.
I was researching that, and I
knew that he was a Freemason,
and it was--
it was stumbling into something.
I had no idea how
far it would lead.
Just from thinking it might
be a saddlebag of treasure,
to amounts of treasure
that Jesse had never--
he'd never even robbed
that much money.
There was a guy named--
mom had written her
first book, and a man
named George came
out of the shadows.
He was a Freemason.
>>REGINA: Where was this
Freemasonry located?
I mean, where did
they begin that path?
Was that in Missouri, or--
>>DUKE: Jesse-- and see,
that's a good question.
Jesse was a Freemason
under his alias,
but we don't know if
he was a Freemason
before that or after that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
what I'm saying is,
it's kind of nebulous,
the whole thing.
>>DUKE: Yeah, it's kind of hard.
I would love to
find a lodge where
the part of the membership
said Jesse James.
>>REGINA: Jesse James, yeah.
>>DUKE: That would be awesome.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it would.
>>DUKE: But then they might
not want to put that out there.
>>REGINA: Sure, sure.
>>DUKE: And I myself
am a Freemason.
I joined just after
all the research I did.
But Jesse had joined.
I'm not sure if it was under
his alias or his real name.
Now according to
Freemasonry, you can't--
you can't go under an alias.
You join under your real name.
But I'd say that was a
special circumstance.
He wasn't telling everybody
who he really was,
and back then it was so
easy to hide your identity.
So back to the Freemasonry part.
He was a Freemason, a lot of
the guerillas around him--
former guerillas-- were
Freemasons as well.
They had treasure, and
that gets real murky too.
I'm not sure where they
got all the gold they had.
This man named George--
when Jesse was old, like in his
late 80s, George was around 12,
13 years old.
George was hired by Jesse
to move 700 bars of gold,
each about 15 pounds each.
So it was big, heavy ingots
of gold, and it was 700 bars.
If you look at the history--
the known history of
all the robberies,
it doesn't amount to that much.
That's a-- a fortune.
>>REGINA: So he-- they tapped
into some other treasure.
>>DUKE: Yeah, it came
from somewhere else,
which is what got me on it.
>>REGINA: Somewhere else.
So that and that map--
that odd kind of
geometric map is
what took you down that road.
>>DUKE: So we had that map.
We didn't know where it
was, but it was rumored
it was at Jesse's house.
Somewhere on his property.
Then George told us-- he drew
my mother and I a map where--
and he was a Freemason,
a Scottish Rite Freemason
and a World War II vet.
And he-- it sounds
like a typical treasure
story-- drew us the map, and
a few years later, he died.
But he told us exactly where it
was, and when we went to find--
to locate it, we were so happy.
We though, oh, we're going
to get some treasure.
It was on Fort
Hood Military Base.
It's an army base down
there between Waco--
near Temple, Texas.
So we thought, yeah, we're not
going on a base and doing that.
>>REGINA: No, that's
not going to happen.
>>DUKE: But that gave
us another location.
And around the same
time, a former attorney
general for the state of
Texas, Waggoner Carr--
he was friends with LBJ, and
there's a lot of other things
he'd been involved with.
But he was interested in Jesse.
He had his driver--
after a couple of years
of talking to mom,
he had his driver take my mother
and I to several locations
where large caches of
treasure had been recovered.
One of them he told us was
recovered by the Texas rangers,
or the Texas rangers
oversaw the recovery.
And when we asked what they
did with it, he wouldn't say.
He didn't-- it
just stopped there.
And I thought, OK,
we know not to--
he was an important man,
I didn't want to push it
and neither did mom.
But he showed us
the locations, which
gave me several more points.
And when you lay
the-- there was--
this is where it goes into
another part of the story.
There was a group called the
Knights of the Golden Circle.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no, those guys
were a little nebulous, too.
I looked at that.
>>DUKE: They were odd.
>>REGINA: They were looking to
promote slavery 1,200 miles.
>>DUKE: Massive scale.
>>REGINA: Into the
West Indies, Mexico.
They were down--
they were definitely
doubling down on slavery.
>>DUKE: They wanted to take
northern South America, all
of Central America,
the South in the US,
and make Havana,
Cuba their capital.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So let's talk about how Jesse's
life intersects with that.
>>DUKE: Well now,
a lot of people
claim Jesse was a part of the
Knights of the Golden Circle
along with Albert Pike
and several other people.
And then Albert Pike--
most people-- he was a
33rd degree Freemason.
And I don't think--
there's no proof
that he was part
of the Knights of
the Golden Circle.
It wouldn't shock
me if either of them
were, because the Knights of the
Golden Circle during the Civil
War were kind of like
Secret Service in a way.
And they did a lot
of covert operations
to slow down northern forces.
Well, after the Civil War,
their goals supposedly
changed to amassing
as much wealth
as they could, any
way they could,
to re-fund a second Civil
War and gain their dream
of having a slave empire.
And we'd all agree
that's not good.
I don't know if Jesse
was a part of that.
There's no proof that he was.
And a lot of groups like
to lump people in just
to give themselves some
kind of credibility.
It could be either way.
>>REGINA: So we get
to this point now.
First of all, I have a question.
Have you been approached
for movie rights
to redo the Jesse James story?
>>DUKE: No, not yet.
>>REGINA: I'm just
thinking, that seems
to me like that's going to come
down the road at some point.
>>DUKE: And I feel like--
I hope I'm not--
I hope I'm keeping this
in line with your answers,
because it is a
confusing story at times.
>>REGINA: Oh, I know.
And because you're going
on what evidence you found.
Other people have their stories.
Everyone had a story.
And you're trying to
piece it together.
So this is interesting.
I find it interesting, but
I find it really interesting
what's in us that loves
this kind of stuff.
That's to me the most
interesting part of it.
>>DUKE: Well, the Knights
of the Golden Circle
had a treasure template.
Some treasure, and I
thought OK, I don't
know how true this is or not.
And this came down
later, it came--
I finally stumbled on that.
I overlaid that
over all the spots
that George and Waggoner
Carr and several others
had mentioned, and Jesse's
house in the center.
Everything lined up perfectly,
you just needed the scale.
And that gave me the scale.
It turns into a grid system
that covers the Americas.
It's not on every
part of the Americas,
but if there's a treasure
associated with them,
it's on that template.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, the treasure
was never found.
The rest of the stuff
was never found, right?
>>DUKE: That's right.
>>REGINA: To this day.
>>DUKE: Well, there's been a
lot found, but that's usually--
people keep that under wraps.
If somebody found it, most of
them wouldn't say anything.
>>REGINA: But some of it-- a
lot of it's on private property.
>>DUKE: That's true, and
there's a lot out there still,
I believe.
But the ones that
have been found,
people keep quiet, just because
the government will take it.
>>REGINA: Well, yeah.
They're not going to
report it to the IRS.
Well, very good.
Any final thoughts on this--
this is just a fascinating
story--
before we sign off here?
>>DUKE: Oh, god, final thoughts.
It's an amazing story.
>>REGINA: Your final
thoughts about Jesse,
and your own feeling about this
man and your family lineage.
>>DUKE: Well, first of all,
you mentioned strong women.
Without the women in his life,
and in my life, none of this
would have ever happened.
My mom's the one that
opened this story wide open.
She's the one who
proved a lot of this.
I found a lot on the
Jesse side of it,
but mom did most of
the work on that.
My sister and I
helped her research,
she was credible for that.
And as for Jesse, his--
women fell into-- she molded
his life in a large way.
His father left when
he was a young child,
so he was molded by his mother.
>>REGINA: And his mother
said to her dying day,
she said "I have the
two most devoted sons
a mother could have."
>>DUKE: She was proud of them.
>>REGINA: And so she was
very proud of her sons.
>>DUKE: That's true.
And the other part
of it was just Jesse.
He's a mystery that--
the book's not closed on Jesse.
Much of it has
finally been solved,
but there's still a lot of--
a lot to be found.
>>REGINA: Well, keep on digging.
>>DUKE: I will.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
I appreciate your
sharing this with us,
it's been a fascinating ride.
>>DUKE: Thank you.
It's my pleasure.
>>REGINA: To dial into
the story further,
you can find Daniel Duke's
books on Jesse James
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]